today we're going to be talking about
stock photography and its role in the
design process now in case you haven't
heard that term before stock photographs
are ones that a photographer takes and
then makes available on a website and
like a big library of photos for you to
then download and purchase the rights to
use in your project there are a bunch of
pros and cons to using stock photography
that we're gonna talk about but first I
just want to say a big thank you to
graphic stock for sponsoring this video
they've got the largest library online
of stock photos and illustrations and
vectors and they've provided all the
images that you see in this video I got
the idea to talk about this when they
reached out to me and I thought it could
be something that's really interesting
and useful for you to learn about so
with that said let's get on with my
designers guide to stock photography
stock photography is popular because
it's often much easier and cheaper to
find a photo that's suitable on a stock
photo website than it is to go about
hiring a photographer and a studio and
taking the pictures yourself and that's
why a lot of small businesses and
particularly you stock photo websites
for example hopefully you guys know that
you can't just use any random photo you
find online and your project for
copyright reasons but when you download
a photo from a stock photo website
you're purchasing the rights to use it
in your project royalty-free and that
means that you just pay for it once and
you don't have to pay for it each time
you use it on many sites single images
can cost up to like 30 dollars each
which is obviously gonna add up fast but
on graphic stock you just pay a
membership fee which is 99 dollars for
the whole year and then you get
unlimited royalty free downloads of all
300,000 plus images in their library
which is obviously really useful for
small businesses something to be aware
of is that because of the nature of
stock photos anyone can download the
same image that you have and use it in
their project too and that's one of the
reasons that designers like myself tend
to avoid relying heavily on stock
imagery because obviously we want the
websites or the brochures or whatever is
we're designing to be unique so what I
wouldn't use a stock photo for say the
header on a website for example there is
definitely a time in a place for stock
photography and if you're smart with it
it can really speed up your process
stock photography is really useful for
things that I like to call quick wins
so say you need an image for a blog post
or a social media post and you obviously
don't have the time or the budget to go
about taking a shoot yourself because
it's just a small thing and it needs to
be done quickly well that's when you
just hit on graphic stock and type in a
keyword that relates to the topic of the
post and it'll come up with images that
work generally I think that stock
imagery should be used to supplement
your design it shouldn't be the focus of
it so I always like to try and customize
them a bit with text or graphics they're
also really useful as background imagery
to share your type of graphic designs or
lettering for example much more
interesting than a plain page and I use
stock photos it's the background of my
podcast artwork because I just need to
quickly get an image that gives a sense
of the topic so the logo and the episode
number is still the focus of the layout
let's be honest stock images can be a
bit on the cheesy side a few years back
there was that meme of woman laughing
along with salads it was pretty funny
and to promote the Vince Vaughn movie
and finished business they made these
mock cliche corporate stock images
featuring the cast and they're pretty
great but really what it comes down to
is using stock images is all about
choosing the right photo for your
project so when you're trying to choose
the stock photo use your design eye to
pick out a photo that is well composed
and it's gonna fit well within your
project allow enough room to put any
text or whatever that you need to on top
of it I tend to avoid using stock photos
of people's faces because like I said I
want the stock imagery to be a
supplement to the design rather than the
focus and the human eye is always drawn
to other people's faces I also think
it's a bit dishonest to use a photo of
someone and imply they're a customer
when really they're just a stock photo
model so be picky when you're choosing
stock photos to use and look out for
something that's well composed and has
nice texture to it's nice colors to use
in the background and supplement your
design I hope you enjoyed the stock
photography 101 guide please give this
video a thumbs up if you did I'm really
keen to hear your thoughts on stock
images as well so leave them down below
in the comments I ran a poll on Twitter
and 78% of people who responded agreed
with me that there is a time in a place
for stock images but there's definitely
some strong opinions so let's have a
chat about that down below if you want
some nice stock images to use in any
upcoming projects of your own just head
to graphics comm search youtube or click
the link down below in the description
and you get a free 7-day trial of their
site remember that all the images on the
are 100% royalty-free so when you
download and use them you're not going
to be breaking any copyright laws I've
actually been thinking about doing a
video about design and copyright so I
don't know if you've got questions about
that let me know down below as well
thank you for watching and I will see
you next week